so can't live a life because of social
my social anxiety and can't seek
treatment because of social anxiety
so social anxiety is like kind of tricky
okay so part of the reason that
mental illness is so bad
is because
i kind of think about it almost like i
think about hiv
so the reason that hiv is such a
devastating illness is because it
impacts your ability to fight back right
so if we look at all of the illnesses
in most of them you have an immune
system that's fighting against the
illness
the problem with a lot of mental illness
is that we use our minds to fight back
we use our minds to adapt like if you
look at like cancer survivors for
example right like they use their mind
they're resilient they seek help
they go see doctors they like if their
mind is like working okay like they
they will like go and like they can
fight against the cancer because their
their weapons are still intact
the most devastating thing about a lot
of psychiatric illnesses like if you
look at depression or social anxiety
is that they actually attack your
ability to fight back
so the hardest thing about social
anxiety is that it's hard to go get help
so this is where you know if you look at
people
so i'm gonna take a quick tangent so
they're like two personality disorders
one is avoidant personality disorder and
the other is schizoid personality
disorder so in avoidant personality
disorder and schizoid personality
disorder people are loners but there's a
big difference
so avoidant people who are also kind of
on the social anxiety kind of bucket in
my mind
are people that want connections but
can't get them and schizoid people are
just loners so they're actually like
content being alone so the tricky thing
about social anxiety is that you want
connections or if you have avoidant
personality disorder if you're like
avoidant right
you want connections but it's just
really really hard to get them and
that's just what's so devastating about
it because like
you know you want the connection you
want to seek help but you're so damn
socially anxious that overcoming that
social anxiety is like half the problem
so then the question is okay what do i
do
if i'm socially anxious and i can't get
into therapy
and this is where the short answer is
ask for help
so if you can't do something on your own
and by the way if you want to think
about one variable that correlates with
success in life i think it's the ability
to ask for help
and so if you can't get a therapist on
your own because you're too socially
anxious
you know i would say just ask for help
and then the people with social anxiety
may come fire back and they may say but
like asking for help makes me anxious
too and that's where like yeah that's
true
but this is where in my experience even
people with social anxiety or even
people who are avoidant have some people
that they can't ask for help
there are some people that they can
reach out to that they feel comfortable
enough like asking for help so it's
something as simple as asking um
you know a friend of yours like hey can
you help me find a therapist
and even go to the first appointment
like with someone who's got social
anxiety so sometimes i'll have you know
patients who will come to like their
first appointment with me and they'll
like bring a friend or bring a pet
like and they'll ask you know can i
bring a pet and sometimes i'll i i have
to say no but
depending on where i'm renting space
but sometimes they'll come in and then
i'll say like you know if it makes you
comfortable and they're you know you're
okay with them like hearing what i
answer about medical questions then
they're welcome to come in is it okay if
i ask them to
to
stay out for a little while
um
or step out for a little while so i'd
say in short ask for help from people
that you're comfortable with and there
may be some amount of social anxiety
there but this is also where like
um you know the social anxiety you have
to overcome to go see a therapist may be
over here but the social anxiety ask a
friend for help maybe over here it's
still going to be present maybe and then
hopefully you have like a really good
friend that you feel comfortable asking
for help and just ask for help so ask
them to help you you know like look
through things make appointments make
phone calls maybe you're comfortable
doing all the research but you're not
comfortable making the phone call
i've even done that for family members
and stuff where like i'll even talk to
like i'll have some family members who
are like very reluctant to engage in in
like mental health treatment or some
very close friends and i'll make the
phone calls for him and i'll put it on
speakerphone and i'll say hey let me
make the phone call for you so i'm going
to call the number because like making
appointments not actually that hard
right it's not like that difficult of an
interaction it's not like people are
going to grill you
and so you know i'll make the phone call
for them and even even in coaching one
of the the things that our coaches are
actually trained to do is to help people
overcome their resistance and
operationalize getting into therapy so
we even give the coaches like sort of a
guide
um to help their clients get into
therapy because sometimes coaching you
know sometimes people really do have
well coaching can improve depression and
anxiety sometimes it appears that the
coach can't really diagnose things but
they they may really like notice they'll
be like okay it really seems like you
know something's off here and you're
having a lot of trouble getting out of
bed in the morning why don't you get a
mental health evaluation to see if this
is depression
so they're kind of trained in that so
i'd say the short answer is like ask for
help if you can't do it on your own
you